
file — determine file type

strings - print the strings of printable characters in files.

Tracing technology: ltrace and strace
strace and ltrace provide a flood of information about system and library calls being made by Linux processes,
 and sorting through it all can help discover the cause of problems.
intercepts library calls and system calls made by your application to C libraries

hexdump utility is a filter which displays the specified files, or the standard input, if no files are specified, in a user specified format.

Understanding the Linux filesystem and users
Understanding the system and user crontabs
Learning the important Linux commands and tools

Reconnaissance / Information Gathering
Before attacking any application or service, it is important to gather as much information as possible. The more information an attacker has,
 the easier it will be to identify any misconfigurations and vulnerabilities.

 reconnaissance section, you’ll learn:

Identifying open ports on the machine
Identifying services running on the machine
Interacting with network services
Fingerprinting different types of services
Understanding service-specific misconfigurations
Enumerating files/directories on web applications
Scanning web application using popular scanners and identifying the entry points

Enumeration is crucial in the reconnaissance phase of ethical hacking that allows a penetration tester to expose potential security flaws in an application.
In the enumeration phase, the security team establishes an active connection with the webserver to gather information on users, hosts, networks, primary servers, and application configuration.

There are three primary scopes when testing an application or service. 
Your understanding of your target will determine the level of testing that you perform in your penetration testing engagement.
 In this task, we'll cover these three different scopes of testing.

Black-Box Testing:  the tester is not given any information about the inner workings of the application or service.
Grey-Box Testing: a combination of both black-box and white-box testing processes. The tester will have some limited knowledge
White-Box Testing: The tester will have full knowledge of the application 

CTF 

* Cryptography – Solving ciphers and code, ranging from classic ciphers (e.g., Caesar, transposition) to modern cryptography such as AES, 3DES, RC4 and Twofish.
* Programming – Challenges which will require coding a solution in the computer language of your choice. Solving these manually would generally be too tedious or time-consuming.
* OSINT (Open Source Intelligence) – Finding clues hidden on the public internet and social media platforms. Bring your best Google-fu to tackle these.
* Reverse engineering – Studying a binary executable, malware sample, or other file to understand its intent or behavior.
* Forensics – Analyzing log files, network packet captures or other artifacts to detect how a hacker infiltrated a system.
* Steganography – The art and science of hiding (and detecting) messages in images, audio files and the like.




locate "passwd" | grep "/etc/"
locate "*.conf" | grep resolv
find /etc -type f -name "*.conf"

groups level00

Each challenge you try to solve was created by a human. 
Sharpen your tools
If you routinely script things in Python, try writing a bash script (or vice versa).

One way to better motivate and engage employees in training (security awareness) is through gamification.



